An important aspect to developing
data products is having a way
to create interactive maps.
Leaflet is a JavaScript library, and
then there is an associated Leaflet
package for R that makes use of this
JavaScript library to create interactive
maps within your R environment.
And it's especially convenient within
RStudio because it brings it up in
the RStudio window.
So we're just going to go ahead and
go through some Leaflet examples and
get you started with the bare
minimum to get going on this, and
I think you'll get
the extended rather quickly.
So, and I should say there's several
other ways to create interactive maps.
GoogleVis is another one,
and so I think Leaflet
is worth covering on its
own just because it's so
widely accepted and
widely used among the R crowd.
But again, I would also say, look up, in
our googleVis lecture we also talk about
creating maps using googleVis,
which directly access Google Maps.
And there's still some other ways, but
I think those two might
be the two most popular.
So you want to make sure you install
it first, I won't go through this,
just install.packages("leaflet").
Now let's just go through a code
example where we create our
first Leaflet map in R.
So here I have the R mark down document
for the next couple of slides.
I have the whole R mark down document,
but here's the code for
the next couple of slide.
It has two separate sections, one that
just displays it as code, and one that,
the separate one that evaluates it.
So you have to call library(leaflet).
And then, let me just run these three
commands, and then we'll talk about them.
So, the first thing I want to comment on,
so I ran the commands and
there you can see your map.
And then you can zoom in,
of course, as much as you'd like.
So, it is a, and
this is in the RStudio viewer pane.
So it's not a plot, it's in the kind
of browser viewer that's in RStudio.
Okay, so, the first thing I'd like
to mention is something that we're
going to use heavily in these set of
lectures, which is the piping notation.
So, what this code basically
is equivalent to is,
imagine if I wrote up my_map=leaflet(),
okay, and
then my_map=addTiles(my_map), okay?
So let me get rid of my map over here and
then run these three lines, okay?
And you'll see it does the same thing.
It generates the same map.
So this code right here, right,
is identical to this code right here.
That's what the piping notation is doing.
It's taking this output, my_map, and
then piping it to this next command,
adding it as the first argument and
then reassigning it to the variable here,
okay?
So, and that's a lot cleaner code,
and easier to read,
once you get to used to it
than what I had written below.
Okay, so the first part leaflet
just kind of generates the map.
And then the addTiles is adding
the first set of content.
And we'll talk in a little bit about
how to actually do some useful things,
like add markers and so on.
But just first try to do this,
just generate a world map, zoom around,
make sure you can install a Leaflet
library, and this is step one and
then now we'll go on to some
more interesting things.